feat(modeling): first modeling skills (#56546)
PostHog/posthog: products/data_warehouse/skills/layering-warehouse-models/SKILL.md

  cents-stored amounts).

Staging does **not** join. Staging does **not** aggregate. One row in, one row out (after filters). If you find
yourself wanting to join in a staging model, what you actually want is an `int_*` model that depends on two
staging models.

Typically one `stg_*` per "raw" source. If two staging models cover the same source entity, you have drift waiting
to happen.

### `int_*` — joined and re-grained

Intermediate models combine staging models, change grain, or compute reusable derived facts that more than one
final model would want. Examples:

- `int_subscription_daily` — one row per (subscription, day) by exploding `stg_stripe__subscriptions` over its
  active period.
- `int_customer_with_first_order` — `stg_stripe__customers` joined to the earliest `stg_stripe__charges`.
- `int_account_revenue` — joins of charges + refunds + credits, ready to be aggregated by any final model.

Intermediate models can be expensive (they often join), so this is the layer where you most often consider
materializing — but only when the same intermediate is reused by multiple final models. A one-off intermediate that

> only feeds a single final model is usually better inlined into that final model, or kept virtual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
materializing — but only when the same intermediate is reused by multiple final models. A one-off intermediate that
only feeds a single final model is usually better kept virtual.
```

  aggregating). The CTEs are telling you the layer boundaries — promote them to real models.
- **Two consumers want slightly different filters.** Build a single intermediate without filters and let each
  final model apply its own.
- **A change in the SQL silently breaks a downstream metric.** That's a sign the model is doing too much for any
  one consumer to fully reason about.

## When not to split

Don't manufacture layers for the sake of conformity:

- **A small, single-source final model with no reusable intermediate.** It's fine for a `final_*` to read directly from
  `stg_*` — not every final model needs an `int_*` underneath.
- **A `stg_*` that's nearly identical to the raw table.** If a source already has clean columns and consistent
  types (well-managed Postgres tables, for instance), the staging model is just `SELECT * FROM postgres`. That's
  still worth keeping — it's the contract — but don't try to add fake transformations.
- **One-off exploratory queries.** Save them as views for reuse, but don't pretend they're part of the layered
  warehouse. Drop them into a separate folder or unprefix them. The layer prefixes are a promise about the

>   graph; keep them load-bearing.

Reviewer: oh no load-bearing 😂

Author: lmao. claude's wording in this case. not mine

Reviewer: exactly why i said 'oh no' haha  
it loves that stuff
